README.md, before:

# <span style="color:purple">Julie Tibshirani</span>

<img src="/assets/julie.jpg" alt="Julie with California poppies" width="450" style="float: right; margin-bottom: 5px; margin-left: 10px;"/>

Hello, world! I'm a software engineer focused on search and data-intensive systems. I currently work on code search and AI-assisted software
development at [Sourcegraph](https://about.sourcegraph.com/), and serve as an
[Apache Lucene](https://lucene.apache.org/) committer and PMC member. I'm also
the author of the [generalized random forests (grf) package](https://grf-labs.github.io/grf/).

I love building software that's empowering and joyful to use. I'm an open
source enthusiast, and shared my experience joining the open source search
community in
*[Finding a home (and career) in the open source community](https://www.elastic.co/blog/culture-finding-a-home-and-career-in-the-open-source-community)*.

Before Sourcegraph, I worked at Elastic on the [Elasticsearch](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Elasticsearch) search engine, and at [Palantir Technologies](https://www.palantir.com/). I hold an M.S. in Computer Science and B.S. in Math from Stanford University.

## <span style="color:purple">Selected work</span>

#### 🔎  Vector search
Thanks to a new generation of machine learning models that can powerfully
represent text as vectors, there's been a surge of interest in vector-based 
semantic search. I led Elastic's effort to introduce vector search in Lucene and
Elasticsearch, helping extend these systems to become powerful "vector databases".
* *[Introducing approximate nearest neighbor search in Elasticsearch](https://www.elastic.co/blog/introducing-approximate-nearest-neighbor-search-in-elasticsearch-8.0)*
* *[Implementing academic papers: lessons learned from Elasticsearch and Lucene](https://www.elastic.co/blog/implementing-academic-papers-lessons-learned-from-elasticsearch-and-lucene)*
* *[Text similarity search with vectors in Elasticsearch](https://www.elastic.co/blog/text-similarity-search-with-vectors-in-elasticsearch)*

#### 🌲  Machine learning for causal inference
Causal inference allows for determining the effect of an action on a
larger system. The generalized random forests (grf) method combines insights
from statistics and machine learning to enable causal analysis. I developed the
[grf software package](https://grf-labs.github.io/grf/), which has become a
popular tool for social scientists investigating causal effects.
* *[Generalized Random Forests](https://arxiv.org/abs/1610.01271)* (Annals of Statistics, 2019)
* *[Local Linear Forests](https://arxiv.org/abs/1807.11408)* (Journal of Computational and Graphical Statistics, 2020)

#### 💾  Information extraction
During my Master's degree I researched relation extraction and knowledge base
population as part of the Stanford Natural Language Processing group. Our work
focused on non-traditional supervision techniques, including multi-label
learning, partial supervision, as well as methods to address labelling errors in
training data.
* *[Multi-instance Multi-label Learning for Relation Extraction](https://www.aclweb.org/anthology/D12-1042/)* (EMNLP, 2012)
* *[Combining Distant and Partial Supervision for Relation Extraction](https://www.aclweb.org/anthology/D14-1164/)* (EMNLP, 2014)
* *[Robust Logistic Regression using Shift Parameters](https://www.aclweb.org/anthology/P14-2021/)* (ACL, 2014)

## <span style="color:purple">Personal</span>

⛰️ **Backcountry cooking recipes**. I'm an avid backpacker and enjoy finding [creative ways to eat well outdoors](/backcountry).

📼 **Digital mixtapes**. A true child of the 90s, I love making playlists for friends and family.
* [A Golden State](https://open.spotify.com/playlist/2T4qI78ekq6IvZWdD0hAvl?si=11a8494c3e4141ee): A rock-centric playlist featuring artists from California, compiled as a welcome gift for a friend moving here.
* [Sleepytime](https://open.spotify.com/playlist/5FigKrjjfhB4ucejGy6sBH?si=b6ecde45b5904ffb): My daughter's bedtime playlist, inspired by three prayers I said before bed as a child.

🤓 **Unicode.** I'm the proud [sponsor](https://aac.unicode.org/sponsors) of Unicode characters μ and σ.

___

<a href="mailto: julietibs@apache.org"><img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/edent/SuperTinyIcons/master/images/svg/email.svg" alt="Email icon" width=30></a>
<a href="http://www.github.com/jtibshirani"><img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/edent/SuperTinyIcons/master/images/svg/github.svg" alt="Github icon" width=30></a>
<a href="https://www.linkedin.com/in/julie-tibshirani/"><img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/edent/SuperTinyIcons/master/images/svg/linkedin.svg" alt="LinkedIn icon" width=30></a>
<a href="https://scholar.google.com/citations?user=H-A5KBYAAAAJ&hl=en"><img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/edent/SuperTinyIcons/master/images/svg/google_scholar.svg" alt="Google scholar icon" width=30></a>
<a href="http://www.twitter.com/julietibs"><img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/edent/SuperTinyIcons/master/images/svg/twitter.svg" alt="Twitter icon" width=30></a>

Commit message:

Add Stanford open source prize

README.md, after:

# <span style="color:purple">Julie Tibshirani</span>

<img src="/assets/julie.jpg" alt="Julie with California poppies" width="450" style="float: right; margin-bottom: 5px; margin-left: 10px;"/>

Hello, world! I'm a software engineer focused on search and data-intensive systems. I currently work on code search and AI-assisted software
development at [Sourcegraph](https://about.sourcegraph.com/), and serve as an
[Apache Lucene](https://lucene.apache.org/) committer and PMC member. I'm also
the author of the [generalized random forests (grf) package](https://grf-labs.github.io/grf/).

I love building software that's empowering and joyful to use. I'm an open
source enthusiast, and shared my experience joining the open source search
community in
*[Finding a home (and career) in the open source community](https://www.elastic.co/blog/culture-finding-a-home-and-career-in-the-open-source-community)*.

Before Sourcegraph, I worked at Elastic on the [Elasticsearch](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Elasticsearch) search engine, and at [Palantir Technologies](https://www.palantir.com/). I hold an M.S. in Computer Science and B.S. in Math from Stanford University.

## <span style="color:purple">Selected work</span>

#### 🔎  Vector search
Thanks to a new generation of machine learning models that can powerfully
represent text as vectors, there's been a surge of interest in vector-based 
semantic search. I led Elastic's effort to introduce vector search in Lucene and
Elasticsearch, helping extend these systems to become powerful "vector databases".
* *[Introducing approximate nearest neighbor search in Elasticsearch](https://www.elastic.co/blog/introducing-approximate-nearest-neighbor-search-in-elasticsearch-8.0)*
* *[Implementing academic papers: lessons learned from Elasticsearch and Lucene](https://www.elastic.co/blog/implementing-academic-papers-lessons-learned-from-elasticsearch-and-lucene)*
* *[Text similarity search with vectors in Elasticsearch](https://www.elastic.co/blog/text-similarity-search-with-vectors-in-elasticsearch)*

#### 🌲  Machine learning for causal inference
Causal inference allows for determining the effect of an action on a
larger system. The generalized random forests (grf) method combines insights
from statistics and machine learning to enable causal analysis. I authored the
[grf software package](https://grf-labs.github.io/grf/), which won an inaugural
Stanford Open Source Software prize for its research impact, quality, and
dedication to open source principles.
* *[Generalized Random Forests](https://arxiv.org/abs/1610.01271)* (Annals of Statistics, 2019)
* *[Local Linear Forests](https://arxiv.org/abs/1807.11408)* (Journal of Computational and Graphical Statistics, 2020)

#### 💾  Information extraction
During my Master's degree I researched relation extraction and knowledge base
population as part of the Stanford Natural Language Processing group. Our work
focused on non-traditional supervision techniques, including multi-label
learning, partial supervision, as well as methods to address labelling errors in
training data.
* *[Multi-instance Multi-label Learning for Relation Extraction](https://www.aclweb.org/anthology/D12-1042/)* (EMNLP, 2012)
* *[Combining Distant and Partial Supervision for Relation Extraction](https://www.aclweb.org/anthology/D14-1164/)* (EMNLP, 2014)
* *[Robust Logistic Regression using Shift Parameters](https://www.aclweb.org/anthology/P14-2021/)* (ACL, 2014)

## <span style="color:purple">Personal</span>

⛰️ **Backcountry cooking recipes**. I'm an avid backpacker and enjoy finding [creative ways to eat well outdoors](/backcountry).

📼 **Digital mixtapes**. A true child of the 90s, I love making playlists for friends and family.
* [A Golden State](https://open.spotify.com/playlist/2T4qI78ekq6IvZWdD0hAvl?si=11a8494c3e4141ee): A rock-centric playlist featuring artists from California, compiled as a welcome gift for a friend moving here.
* [Sleepytime](https://open.spotify.com/playlist/5FigKrjjfhB4ucejGy6sBH?si=b6ecde45b5904ffb): My daughter's bedtime playlist, inspired by three prayers I said before bed as a child.

🤓 **Unicode.** I'm the proud [sponsor](https://aac.unicode.org/sponsors) of Unicode characters μ and σ.

___

<a href="mailto: julietibs@apache.org"><img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/edent/SuperTinyIcons/master/images/svg/email.svg" alt="Email icon" width=30></a>
<a href="http://www.github.com/jtibshirani"><img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/edent/SuperTinyIcons/master/images/svg/github.svg" alt="Github icon" width=30></a>
<a href="https://www.linkedin.com/in/julie-tibshirani/"><img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/edent/SuperTinyIcons/master/images/svg/linkedin.svg" alt="LinkedIn icon" width=30></a>
<a href="https://scholar.google.com/citations?user=H-A5KBYAAAAJ&hl=en"><img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/edent/SuperTinyIcons/master/images/svg/google_scholar.svg" alt="Google scholar icon" width=30></a>
<a href="http://www.twitter.com/julietibs"><img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/edent/SuperTinyIcons/master/images/svg/twitter.svg" alt="Twitter icon" width=30></a>
